All right, welcome back to the Plus
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming you to fulfill
God's purpose for your life. Now, we're
looking at healing and illness of life.
We're getting to the more practical side
of the teaching and we have established
a number of things that we exist to
fulfill God's purpose. We have to grow
to be able to fulfill that purpose. What
we grow in is the newness of life. We
have established boundaries of the
newness of life in this age, which is
everything available in the new life.
everything available in the age to come
except for immortality and incorruption
which is immortality of our body and
incorruption of matter. Now with the
exception of those two our question was
how would immortality be affected in our
body so that we can know what is
available to our body today. We saw that
immortality will be affected in our
bodies by the spirit. We looked at a
number of texts Romans chapter 8:11. We
saw 2 Corinthians 5 4 and 5. We could
also include Ephesians 1:13:14,
Ephesians 4:14. All of these texts tell
us that it is by the spirit that
immortality will be affected in our
body. And that led us to the next
question, which is what is available in
the spirit for us today? And looking at
the ministry of Jesus, the ministry of
the church, the apostles as well arrive
clearly at the conclusion that healing
is available to our body today. Matthew
12:28 if I cast out demons or heal the
sick by the spirit of God then the
kingdom of God has come to you. So by
healing is available in the spirit. Luke
4:14 he returned in the power of the
spirit. And what did that power do? That
power was also to heal. For example, in
Luke 5 and verse 17 is that the power of
the lord was present to heal. Other
texts like Luke 8 as well. Power came
out of him. I believe Luke 8:46.
We see that healing is available in the
power of the spirit. The same power that
raised Christ from the dead. the same
power that will raise us from mortality
into immortality. Today has healing
available to our bodies. Now with that
conclusion made our focus from that
juncture has moved to how is healing
affected? It's fine that healing is
available but is affected you know
unlike immortality which will be
affected by the initiative of the lord
that is coming. Healing is affected on
our side here amongst us. But first
let's start with the fact that healing
is affected by faith. So that's
overwhelmingly
evident from the text of scripture. We
can look at that from the ministry of
the Lord Jesus and all the way to the
the book of acts in the church. For
example, if you're looking at the four
gospels, the ministry of the Lord Jesus,
you see the faith of the people that
needed healing themselves. You see the
faith of the people that were third
parties to the recipient of healing like
the centurion having faith for a
servant, the Syronician woman having
faith for her daughter. We see the faith
of those who need healing themselves
like the woman who was healed of the
issue of blood. She received healing
herself. Blind Batimos and the other
blind man they received healing
themselves. The lepros man as well. So
we see the faith of the people needing
healing the recipients. We see the faith
of third parties afflated to the people
needing healing third party faith. But
we also see the faith of the ministers.
The Lord mentioned that the reason the
disciples did not get the results in
Matthew 17 when they were to heal that
child was because of their unbelief and
then he instructed them on faith
afterwards showing clearly that he
himself was ministering by faith. So why
didn't you do he said you are faithless
and perverse generation because of your
unbelief. Even in Mark 11 you know after
speaking to the fig tree he said this is
by faith. You can make the mistake of
thinking there was another way the work
was being done. Whether you are looking
at it from the minister's angle or from
the recipient's angle or from the third
party angle, faith was the way healing
was affected. This is overwhelmingly
clear from the word. On the other hand,
when we get to the book of Acts, we see
the same thing. So in Acts chapter 3, we
see Peter and John ministered to the
man. And when they were explained how
they did it, they said it's by faith.
The faith that comes through what Christ
has done. So the faith we have in
redemption is why we ministered healing
to this man and we are not even told of
the faith of the man because just like
some instances as well with the Lord
Jesus the recipient's faith was not as
much an issue in the equation. Another
instance is Acts chapter 14 and in verse
9 Paul was preaching the gospel in
Listra. There was a man laying from his
mother's womb and Paul saw faith can be
visible. Paul saw that he had faith to
be healed and he told him to stand upon
his feet and was healed. So this is an
instance where it was the recipient's
faith as well at work. It's very clear
that faith is major is a very major part
of how healing is affected in the
healing that we have available in the
newness of life is affected in our
bodies. We have already come this far
and now we're about to get into the
practical side of faith. Healing is
affected by faith. It could be
minister's faith. It could be recipants
faith. It could be third party faith as
well. In many instances, you'll see all
three kind of working together like two
working together and then the job being
done. One example I want to show of
recipients faces where people just touch
the lord apart from the woman who had
the issue of blood. But look at Matthew
chapter 14 and verse 35. There was an
instance similar to what the woman did.
So in Matthew 14:34 it says when they
had crossed over they came to the land
of Guanessare and when the men of that
place recognized him they sent out into
all the surrounding regions brought to
him all who were sick. So they
recognized him. They maybe had been
around there or they had heard of him
and they already had faith that they
could be healed and they begged him that
they might only touch the hem of his
garment. and as many as touched it were
perfectly well. In fact, it's like third
party faith maybe alongside resident
faith. So people heard they went to get
the sick and they sought to touch him
and they were healed. You cannot mistake
what was going on in the ministry of the
Lord Jesus for something else. And you
should read the four gospels yourself.
Check it out. Check all the instances.
What was at play over and again was
healing being affected by faith. So you
cannot present an avatar of the Lord
Jesus as working magic or um is just
happening by power indiscretionarily and
independent of people of him. That is
not true. The account overwhelmingly
replayed with the evidence that he was
ministering by faith and people were
receiving as well by faith. Now at this
juncture what is that faith and the
reason is because one of the challenge
people have today whenever they are
receiving healing by faith is that they
see faith as an order. So I would just
be healed except that this faith is what
is affecting me. I don't know why this
has happened and why people's minds have
become affected in this way and it's
rather unfortunate but that is not the
way to think of faith at all. Faith is
how we receive. Faith is not an order
you have to prove to be given something.
Faith is not to impress God. Faith is
not a demand on God's side. It's
unfortunate. There are science
statements that we could make like, oh,
we'd all have everything done if not for
faith. But that is a completely wrong
idea. Faith is just how God designed
this world for the sake of his purpose.
Now if fate is not at play, we would
essentially be robots because fate is at
play in almost everything, even natural
things. You are not programmed to simply
accept things to be true. You consider
things then you accept to be true.
That's what makes you an
independent person. This ability to
consider, to conclude, and then to
accept a position. And in that simple
form, even for natural things, that's
what faith is. is when we now bring it
over to supernatural realities as well.
Faith is not an order to resist your
receiving to check those who are serious
enough to qualify people. Faith is just
the existential design. The way the
world was designed for our receiving is
the way we walk in this world. Is not an
order put up against you. Is not to make
life difficult for you. Faith is how we
receive. And please if you just can
unburden the pressure of trying to have
faith and just understand faith is not a
pressure to try to have first. It's just
to understand so that you can walk in
faith or stand in faith preferably so
that you can walk in the realities that
are yours. All right? Just put your
focus on understanding
understanding faith. Now if your desire
is to understand faith then what we need
to do is to hear from the us mouth which
in this case is the lord Jesus
repeatedly he told people your faith has
made you old other times he told people
according to your faith be it unto you
and with all of that we should then ask
him what is this faith that you're
talking about exactly Lord Jesus tell us
what is this faith you're talking about
now in the privilege account we have of
But the Lord's life is the narrative of
his person, his walk on earth. There are
just a number of places where he does
any form of explanation on faith. And
what we'll do is look at every instance
to understand what he means by faith.
Whilst he would reference faith like in
Matthew 8 and 10, he referenced faith
for the centurion. Matthew 9 and verse
2, they reference the faith of the
friends of the paralytic that was
brought through the roof who was healed.
So they reference their faith in Matthew
9 and in verse 22 the woman who was
healed of the issue of blood her faith
was mentioned it made her whole in
Matthew 9:29 Jesus said according to
your faith talking to the blind men
blind Batimos and I believe one more
person depending on which account you
read yeah there were two blind men in
Matthew's account then he referenced
their faith according to your faith it
says let it be to you in Matthew 15:28
he referenced the faith of the sorrowful
woman. He said great is your faith. He
was always acknowledging faith. He was
not explaining in all these instances.
Now in the book of Matthew there are
just two instances where he makes
commentaries more explanations you might
say on faith and that's Matthew 17 and
Matthew 21. So we are going to look at
those two instances of course. Now if
you have any leaning in a word of faith
manner then you'll be aware of Mark 11.
Matthew 21 is like Mark 11, but we'll
look at the Mark's account and Luke's
accounts later, which is very similar to
what we have seen in Matthew. So, I'll
make a link to them as we are looking at
Matthew. Now, in Matthew 17, so the Lord
had been on the mount of transfiguration
and coming down from that mount, there
was this epileptic child that the father
had brought and the disciples were not
able to get the result. And then the
Lord spoke to them and he called them
faithless and perverse generation. How
long shall I be with you? How long shall
I bear with you? Bring him here to me.
You know, don't forget this is a
situation the person did not get healed
and he's saying the cause. He calls the
reason faithlessness. Your faithless and
perverse generation. How long shall I be
with you? And after he had ministered to
the child and the child was healed. In
verse 19, the disciples came to Jesus
privately and said, "Why could we not
cast it out?" And his answer is crystal
clear. Jesus said to them, "Because of
your unbelief." Some will say because of
your little faith. Some will say because
of your unbelief. And he then says, "For
assuredly I say to you, if you have
faith as a mustard seed, you shall say
to this mountain, move from here to
there, and it will move, and nothing
will be impossible to you. However, this
kind goeth not out but by prayer and
fasting." No, it might be the better
explanation to understand that the
unbelief in question would not leave by
prayer and fasting and that unbelief
affects the kind of results for the kind
of case as well. So it's all together
now to be it wouldn't be an helpful
thing to say certain kind of situations
won't go by prayer and fasting. We
already would see from the Lord Jesus's
teaching elsewhere that faith is built
in the place of prayer. Meaning unbelief
goes in the place of prayer. So if the
condition will live by prayer and is in
prayer that faith is built is really the
unbelief living in prayer and then the
demons leaving. We mustn't start to
glorify demons such as they would demand
of us to pray before they can leave. It
would rather be of us being equipped or
being fit or being ready to minister for
any kind of circumstance so that we
don't have all weakness in our mind for
certain situations where we regard them
as difficult and which we should have
addressed in prayer to be strong in
faith for okay so very important to just
point that out. So the Lord simply says
here, if you have faith as a mustard
seed, you will say to this mountain and
it would obey you. Well, our time has
run on us. So we're going to look at
Matthew 21 as well in the next episode.
That's where the Lord talked about
believing in prayer. And we'll look at
other texts like in Mark and Luke and
see generally what he taught on faith
and how to effect healing by faith in
our bodies. For now, fulfill God's
purpose and be healed.